About 200 years ago, a biologist living in Utah was struggling studying animals.
In particular, he found it difficult to study a small, docile, and quick
creature. He could not catch it using conventional means. He needed something
that could capture it with little disruption. He petitioned his friend, an
engineer, to help make such a trap. After working for years on end, the engineer
and biologist made a suitable device. The contraption was small: it had a winch
on the outside and consisted of two halves. It worked by compressing animal
tissue and by quickly dissolving and regrowing it. One could use this device by
turning the winch counter-clockwise and either placing it or throwing it at a
creature. It would be attracted to it and sucked inside. To release it, the
winch simply had to be turned the opposite way. They cleverly named the device
an "animal capsule", and with it, the biologist set out to capture his mystery
organism. Surprisingly, he caught the animal he was looking for; but it was
simply an ordinary field mouse. He released the mouse and stowed the animal
capsule away.


The biologist had two sons. His eldest son was a biochemist, familiar with
genetic engineering. His other son was an electrial engineer. The oldest of
these two brothers had a strange ambition: to make animals more useful. No one
knew he had a secret lab, until they broke out. All kinds of strange creatures
had broken out. They were characterized by odd physical features and powers.
Some could spit fire, others water, others could create miniture earthquakes,
and some were simply colassal. Oddest of all were the creatures that would
otherwise be inanimate. Moving rocks and walking plants would make an ordinary
person confused and terrified. A mass exodus of people occured, and many suburbs
and towns were left desolate within hours. To make matters worse, an earthquake
hit, and it turned many towns into rubble. The elder brother went missing and
was never found.


The younger brother was one of many who made an effort to resettle many desolate
areas. However, his brother's creations proved to be hinderance to the effort.
He was sure they could become tamed, but was unsure as to how it could be done.
That is, until he stumbled upon the device his father had boxed away for years.
He found the concept inspiring, but the process ineffective. His iteration the
device converted creatures from matter to energy at a push of a button! It was
simple to use and inexpensive to make. His device became popular; in fact, it
was so popular that he made a facory adn founded a company. The name of the of
the company was Bingham Co., after his last name. The animal capsule, shortened
to AniCap for simplicity's sake, became a household necessity.


Over time, the device had shaped the culture of the region. These creatures were
regularly captured, treated as pets, and used for self defense. A study found
that physically challenging creatures regularly would increase their strength
and cause a type of metamorphisis in some cases. Because of this, it became the
norm to have them fight each other.


Creature battling became the sport of the region. However, there had been little
standardization. To allievate this problem, the Creature Battling League, or the
CBL, was formed. Rules had become standardized, budt there was still a couple
obvious problems. People had started betting on battles and creatures one owned
could be caught by others. Gamling was against the law and discouraged by the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the major church in the region.
Catching a creature that someone else owned was also considered to be stealing.
To confront the issue, the CBL along with Bingham Co., the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the State of Utah held a conference. A standard
was established for obtaining money, by having an opt in system where the winner
of a battle recieves a proportional sum based on the skill of the loser compared
to the winner. The opt in system first became courtesy, and over time it became
a cultrally unconditional, but not legally binding, must.


Climates also polarized: forests became more dense, mountaintops more white,
deserts more dry, water more abundant, and volacanos more active. The animal
population began to be replaced by the creatures, but not wholly.


This is the world you live in.
